On 24 February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine in a major escalation of the Russo-Ukrainian War that began in 2014 in Crimea and Donbass region.
The invasion caused Europe's largest refugee crisis since World War II,with more than 9.8 million Ukrainians fleeing the country and a third of the population displaced.
The invasion also caused global food shortages.
In 2014, Russia invaded and annexed Crimea, and Russian-backed separatists seized part of the Donbas region of south-eastern Ukraine, consisting of Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts, sparking a regional war.
In 2021, Russia began a large military build-up along its border with Ukraine, amassing up to 190,000 troops and their equipment.
In a televised address shortly before the invasion, Russian president Vladimir Putin espoused irredentist views, challenged Ukraine's right to statehood, and falsely claimed Ukraine was governed by neo-Nazis who persecuted
the ethnic Russian minority.On 21 February 2022, Russia recognised the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic, two self-proclaimed breakaway quasi-states in Donbas.
The next day, the Federation Council of Russia authorised the use of military force, and Russian troops promptly advanced on both territories.
The invasion began on the morning of 24 February, when Putin announced a "special military operation" to "demilitarise and denazify" Ukraine. Minutes later, missiles and airstrikes hit across Ukraine, including the capital Kyiv.
A large ground invasion followed from multiple directions. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy enacted martial law and a general mobilisation of all male Ukrainian citizens between 18 and 60,
who were banned from leaving the country.Russian attacks were initially launched on a northern front from Belarus towards Kyiv, a north-eastern front towards Kharkiv, a southern front from Crimea,
and a south-eastern front from Luhansk and Donetsk.So far there has been 5237 confirmed civiliand deaths, and 10000 ukranian soldier deaths, and 5185 russians deaths for around a total 20000 deaths. 
Currently Kiev and Odessa are under ucranian control, and Melitopol, Mariupol and Severodonetsk are under russian control.
The role of the U.S has been important by supplying arms to Ukranian army. 